# Azure Fundamental (AZ-900) - Connecting theory with past experience #

On 10-6-2025, I obtained the Azure Fundamental (AZ-900) certification. My motivation for this certification originally stemmed from when people keep mentioning Entra ID amongst other Azure terminology. Naturally, I would opt to find out myself what Azure is really about. Looking back, I found it more interesting on my headspace throughout the lifecycle studying this exam as well how I specifically learned for this exam unlike previous exams. Let's begin

## Resources Used ##
1. **CBT Nuggets - AZ-900 Course**: The main video course I used for this certification. As I had access to CBT Nuggets through my work, I decided that I wanted to give CBT Nuggets a try this time when I was preparing for the exam. Unlike Udemy, CBTNuggets video for this course felt "unstructured". Lessons were taught using digramming to teach ideas and connect them together where as many of my previous certification video courses were more powerpoint/slideshow oriented. The advantage of this type of course presentation using diagramming made me had to critically think what were the big ideas/takeaways in each videos without relying on copying any slideshow bullet points that were prevalent in many of my previous IT certifications
   
2. [**Microsoft Learn**](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/courses/az-900t00): Microsoft's official learning for AZ-900. This was my supplementary course that I used as a 2nd pass after going through CBT Nuggets video course. What I found most helpful in this resource was the practice assessment question that was at the end of the course where I could validate the knowledge i gained from both courses

3. AZ-900 Pracitce Test 2025: This was a Mobile app I found on Google Play 3 days before my exam date. I have used these type of pocket prep for previous exams including CCNA and Network+. The sheer convenience of it being a practice test from a mobile app makes it super convenient to take out and practice a couple of questions spradically when I have moments of downtime.

## Preamble - My headspace shortly after start studying ##
It was a week after I passed [JNCIS - ENT](https://github.com/bobchen48/Writeups/tree/main/JNCIS%20-%20ENT). I was sitting at a local Starbucks scouting for training materials to prepare for AZ-900. I remember my head was hurting because I was also thinking to myself what can I do next to keep my study momentum going. During this period, I also started getting into Software Engineering Podcasts (specifically those by Ryan Peterman), which shortly led me consuming tons of System Design Interview videos by Hello Interviews. While I am not a Software Engineer myself, I found these software engineering podcast and system design interview very fasinating because I was amazed how people walkthrough designing the underlying system architecture for popular software applications such as Facebook posts, Uber, Ticketmaster etc that have impacted our lives significantly. Although difficult to recall those emotions to put into cohesive words, I knew my mind was experiencing a wide range of emotions that were overwhelming but exciting. It intrigued me to dig on it more as I reflect on my past troubleshooting I've done at my work.

## Study Session (CBT Nuggets Videos + Microsoft Learn) ##
My first two weeks of studying were spent on video training courses on CBT Nuggets. To improve my deep learning, I have started to actively connect concepts I learned in Azure to previous problems I've encountered at work to better apply my leanring to my work. For example, when I was learning about Azure ExpressRoute, which is Azure service that creates a private dedicated network connection from on-prem infrastructure to an Azure datacenter, I discretely remember a ticket case where a client was inquiring about the feasibility of a backup connectivity using a Site-To-Site VPN. While I wasn't certain how it was possible, I learned from my lecture that it was actually possible to implement a Site-to-Site VPN as a reundant route to the private Azure ExpressRoute. 

Additionally, anytime I wasn't sure of what an Azure Service was meant to do, I would Google the Azure Service and see if there was an AWS equivalent of it, drawing my previous AWS Certification to help me draw connection between the Azure Service and its AWS direct counterpart. This method was really effective for developing a deeper connection to my learning as I am not taking material at face value, but instead preferring a more inquisitive approach.

## Final 3 Days leading up to Exam ##



